=== Page 1 ===
Undergraduate Studies
Technion Senate
The Technion Senate is the authority that determines all
academic matters of the institution in accordance with the
constitution and bylaws, regulations, academic regulations and
academic procedures, including the curricula, degrees, as well
as the regulations and procedures related to teaching and
studying at the Technion.
Undergraduate Studies
The Dean of Undergraduate studies is elected by the full-time
tenured professors within the Senate and is entrusted by the
Senate to oversee undergraduate studies at the Technion. The
Undergraduate Academic Secretary, Ms. Efrat Nativ-Ronen,
manages the Undergraduate Studies Center located in the
Ullman building, 4th floor, which includes the following
activities:
Candidate Assessment Unit headed by Ms. Estee Cohen,
Student Unit headed by Ms. Tamar Nissimov, Teaching Unit
headed by Ms. Nava Berger, Exam Unit headed by Ms. Limor
Arzuan, Process Evaluation and Information Unit headed by
Ms. Orit Wakstein, and the Computerized Documentation Unit
headed by Mr. Reuben Malka.
Admission Tracks, Study Tracks, and Degree
Tracks
The Technion offers bachelor’s degree programs
(undergraduate studies) as well as master’s and doctoral degree
programs (graduate studies). This catalogue is specific to
undergraduate studies and graduate studies. Students who apply
and are accepted to a bachelor’s degree program in one of the
admission tracks are thus considered to belong to one of the
academic units. Each unit has either one or several study
tracks per degree. The table presents all admission tracks and
the unit with which they are affiliated. In addition, the table
presents all possible study tracks, along with the years of study
and the name of the degree that students will receive upon
successful completion of the track.
Most of the study tracks are four years long, and the degree
awarded is called a “Bachelor of Science in…”. There are also
three-year degree programs that earn the title of “Bachelor of
Science in…”. The medical degree is the exception; it is six
years long (after three years, the student will earn a Bachelor of
Science in Medical Sciences, and upon completion of the sixth
year and an internship, the student will be awarded an M.D.
degree.
Bachelor’s Degree Admission Requirements at
the Technion
The Dean of Undergraduate Studies is responsible for accepting
candidates to the Technion. Admission requirements and
information about how to apply for admission to undergraduate
studies at the Technion are detailed on the Technion’s
Admissions website (Ulman Building, 4th floor, phone: 077-
8873306). Below are additional details regarding admission.
Applicants with no previous academic background
Admission to undergraduate studies at the Technion among
those who hold a Bagrut certificate (certificate that indicates
that a student has successfully passed Israel’s high school
matriculation exam) will be based on students’ Bagrut grades,
scores on the Psychometric University Entrance Test, and if
necessary, also on entrance exams and language proficiency
tests (for example, the AMIR test or the YAEL test). Additional
admission routes are periodically published on the Registration
website.
Applicants who have a different type of matriculation
certificate are admitted to the Technion on the basis of technical
exams in mathematics, physics, Hebrew, English, and their
psychometric exam scores. All applicants to the Faculty of
Architecture and Town Planning must also take an entrance
exam in landscape architecture. All applicants to the Faculty of
Medicine must also take admission test.
Applicants with a previous academic background
Students who have already studied at the Technion and
discontinued their studies on their own accord, or whose studies
had been discontinued, will need to be re-admitted to the
Technion on the basis of their initial admission data and on the
basis of their academic performance at the Technion.
Applicants who are currently studying, or have previously
studied, at another institution of higher education must submit,
to the Candidate Assessment Unit, comprehensive information
regarding their previous studies, including course syllabi,
grades, and all academic evaluations. Decisions regarding the
admission of applicants will be made on the basis of their past
academic performance and on the basis of the initial admissions
criteria (for more information, see section 3.1.6). Students will
not receive any credits (grades or exemptions) for courses taken
during the time in which they were expelled from the Technion,
as per the student disciplinary regulations.
Course of Study
The following is an overview of the course of study for a
bachelor’s degree:
In accordance with the Senate’s decision that was made on May
19, 2013 and June 2, 2013 – the recommendations provided by

=== Page 2 ===
the committee for evaluating the curriculum and the study load
at the Technion were approved; these recommendations
focused on various issues including the academic calendar
(shortening the semester to 13 weeks, determining the dates of
Hannukah vacation, and a shortened exam period); the lack of
readiness among students who are accepted to the Technion
(completing mandatory courses prior to the start of their studies,
increasing the course completion requirements, refresher
courses, etc.); foundational studies and courses in the faculties,
etc.
The Technion began implementing the above recommendations
in the 2014-2014 academic year.
Beginning one’s studies
Applicants who have been accepted must begin their studies in
the semester for which they have been accepted. Students are
accepted to begin in either the winter or spring semester.
Deferring admission for one semester is only possible with the
approval of the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, and approval
will only be provided in exceptional cases. Applicants who are
accepted for the winter semester may start their studies during
the previous summer semester.
Semesters
Studies take place across two semesters: the winter semester
(starts each year in October) and spring semester (starts each
year in March). Each semester is 13 weeks, not including
holidays and vacations. The summer semester lasts about 7
weeks. In the summer semester, which is an official semester, a
limited number of courses are taught; this allows students to
close any gaps that they may have in their studies or to progress
at a faster pace. Due to the short time span of the semester, the
number of weekly teaching hours for each course is double that
of a regular semester. It is possible to start one’s studies in any
semester (including the summer semester), except for units in
which admission occurs only once a year.
Semester-long courses
The basic unit of study is a semester-long course, i.e., a course
that takes place over the course of one semester. Students are
expected to complete the course, take an exam in the course and
receive a grade. Students who successfully pass a course, will
receive the allotted number of credits for that course. Students
who fail the course will not receive credit for the course.
Prior to enrolling in a course, students must pass all the
prerequisites. Students who take a complementary course or a
course that is similar to one that they have already taken, will
have the credits they earned in the previous course cancelled
and then the credits and grade earned in the more recent course
will replace it.
Placement exams
Prior to beginning one’s studies at the Technion, applicants
must pass an English placement exam (either via the
psychometric test or the AMIR test). Applicants who do not
have a Bagrut certificate must pass a Hebrew placement exam.
Some applicants must also take a placement exam in Physics
and Chemistry.
English placement exam
Taking an English placement exam is mandatory for anyone
who has been accepted to the Technion; this requirement can be
met either with the “English” portion of the psychometric test
or the “AMIR” test. A minimum level of knowledge in English
is necessary in order to begin one’s studies at the Technion. The
different placement levels are: Advanced English A, Advanced
Technical English B, or Exempt.
Physics placement exam
The Physics placement exam consists of two parts: mechanics
and electricity. Passing the mechanics portion of the exam is a
prerequisite for physics-mechanics courses and passing the
electricity portion of the exam is a prerequisite for physics-
electricity courses.
Exemption from the physics placement exam will be granted in
the following circumstances: Students who have been accepted
to a program in Architecture, Landscape Architecture,
Economics, Education in Science and Technology (in the
biology, mathematics, or computer science track), or Medicine;
students who have earned at least 4 units of study in physics on
the Bagrut and received a grade of 70 or above. Exemption from
the mechanics portion of the exam will be granted for students
who were enrolled in the technological track for practical
engineers, specializing in mechanics or agricultural mechanics,
and who have received a grade of 70 or above on the external
exams in technical mechanics. Exemption from the electricity
portion of the exam will be granted to students who were
enrolled in the technological track for practical engineers with
one of the following specializations: Electronics,
Instrumentation, or Evaluation, and who received a passing
grade of 70 or above on the external exams. Exemption from
both parts of the exam will be granted if students earned a grade
of 70 or above in the following courses at the Open University:
Fundamentals of Physics A (20113) and Fundamentals of
Physics B (20114) or Fundamentals of Physics (20125).
Exemption from the mechanics portion of the exam will be
granted for students who earned a grade of 70 or above in the
Open University’s Fundamentals of Physics A (20113) course.
Note: To receive an exemption from the electricity portion of
the exam, passing the Fundamentals of Physics B (20114)
course only is not sufficient.

=== Page 3 ===
Hebrew placement exam
For all admitted students who have taken the psychometric test
in a language other than Hebrew, or who attended a high school
in which the language of instruction was not in Hebrew, must
take a Hebrew proficiency test (YAEL test). A minimum level
of knowledge in Hebrew is necessary in order to begin one’s
studies at the Technion. The different placement levels are:
Hebrew 3 or Exempt with no credit points.
Chemistry placement exam
Students who have been admitted to tracks in Chemical
Engineering, Biotechnology and Food Engineering, Biology,
Environmental Engineering, or Biochemical Engineering, and
who have not taken an exam of 3 units in chemistry and
received a grade of 70 or above, will need to take the chemistry
placement exam. Students who have been admitted to these
tracks but do not pass the placement exam will not be able to
enroll in the chemistry courses taught during the first semester.
Information on preparation courses for the placement exams
and registration for them can be found on the Undergraduate
Studies website.
Faculty members offering private lessons to students
at the Technion
See page 52.
Accommodations due to fertility treatments,
pregnancy, childbirth, adoption, guardianship, or
foster care
The Technion recognizes the importance of the principles set
forth in the Students’ Rights Act and the rules established by
the Council of Education, which increase access to higher
education and provide equal opportunities in higher education
for students on the basis of fertility treatment, pregnancy,
childbirth, adoption, guardianship, or foster care of a child. As
such, the Standing Committee of Undergraduate Studies and of
Graduate Studies has approved, based on the decision made by
the academic plenum on August 14, 2012, procedures regarding
accommodations due to fertility treatments, pregnancy,
childbirth, adoption, guardianship, or foster care. The full text
of these procedures can be found in the Appendix labeled
Accommodations Due to Fertility, Pregnancy, Childbirth,
Adoption, Guardianship, or Foster Care at the end of this
catalogue. The procedures are designed to address the unique
difficulties faced by students in these circumstances and to
identify the assistance and accommodations to which they are
entitled.
Curriculum
Each course of study has a defined curriculum consisting of
courses that include: mandatory courses, faculty electives, and
general Technion electives that students can take in any field of
their choice. Additionally, the curriculum details the credit
points required to obtain the specific degree.
Part C of this catalogue includes the recommended curriculum
per semester for each course of study. The recommended
schedule of course is based on an average rate of progression of
approximately 20 credits per semester. Students can progress at
a faster or slower pace than the average, in accordance with
their personal preferences and circumstances. Prior to each
semester, students (preferably with the guidance of an advisor)
will choose their own course schedule for the semester and will
be responsible for registering for all courses themselves. Once
the semester begins, students may still make changes to their
course schedule, up until the course change deadline.
It is highly recommended that students who are required to
enroll in an English language course do so at the start of their
studies so that they can best utilize the professional literature in
English during their studies. It is also recommended that
students take humanities courses as part of their elective credits;
this is recommended so that students broaden their horizons. In
order to confirm that students meet all their degree
requirements, students will be asked – prior to enrolling in their
final semester – to contact the Undergraduate Academic
Secretary of their unit to check whether they will have
completed all degree requirements by the end of the final
semester.
Students who excel in their studies will be awarded the “Dean’s
Excellence Award” or the “President’s Excellence Award” and
receive a monetary prize. Students who fail will have their
circumstances discussed by the academic unit which will
consider whether to terminate their studies and then will pass
on their recommendation to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies;
this may or may not lead to a discontinuation of their studies.
Degree conferral
Students who have successfully met all the degree requirements
will receive a recommendation from the unit to have their
degree awarded, which will then be passed to the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies for approval. Students will receive a
confirmation that they have completed their degree, and once a
year – in June – a graduation ceremony will be held for all
graduates. Students who have graduated with honors (e.g.,
magna cum laude) will have this noted on their diploma.

=== Page 4 ===
Undergraduate Studies Regulations
and Procedures
Introduction
Undergraduate Studies at the Technion are managed by the
Dean of Undergraduate Studies, in consultation with the
academic units and in accordance with the decisions of the
Academic Plenum and the Senate.
1. Regulations Regarding the Structure of
Teaching
1.1. Course of Study
1.1.1 Semesters
Studies take place during the winter semester, the spring
semester and the summer semester. The winter and spring
semesters each last approximately 13 weeks. The summer
semester lasts approximately 7 weeks and typically includes
limited course offerings. At the end each semester, there is an
exam period.
1.1.2 Curriculum
The curriculum that must be completed in order to obtain a
bachelor’s degree (undergraduate studies) is determined by the
academic unit and approved by the Senate. The curriculum for
a “Bachelor of Science” degree is based on 4 years of study,
amounting to 155-165 credits. The curriculum in the Faculty of
Architecture and Town Planning for a “Bachelor of
Architecture” degree is based on 5 years of study, amounting to
195-205 credits. The curriculum for a “Bachelor of Science”
degree that is based on 3 years of study that amount to 116-124
credits.
In addition to determining the credits required to complete the
curriculum, each program will include a list of foundational
courses, mandatory courses, and faculty elective courses (as
indicated in Sections 1.1.4-1.1.6 below), as well as the number
of credits required for each category.
The remaining credits required for completing the curriculum
will be fulfilled through general elective courses at the
Technion, as specified in Section 1.1.7 below.
The curriculum submission procedure is specified in Appendix
A.
1.1.3 Tracks and specializations
One academic unit can be responsible for several curricula.
When the different curricula of the unit lead to separate degrees,
they are defined as separate “tracks.” If the curriculum includes
a particular concentration, it is defined as a “specialization.”
The procedure for establishing new tracks and specializations
is specified in Appendix B.
1.1.4 Foundational courses
Foundational courses include mathematics, physics, chemistry,
biology, English, and computer science. The syllabi for the
foundational courses are determined by the units responsible for
teaching the courses (mathematics, physics, biology,
humanities, and computer science).
The courses that are offered to all units within the Technion are
specified in Appendix C.
1.1.5 Mandatory courses
Mandatory courses, as well as foundational courses, are
determined by the Academic Unit’s Council.
1.1.6 Elective courses in the unit
The list of elective courses that students can enroll in to
complete their credit quota are specified in the list or lists
prepared by the academic unit. The number of elective course
credits shall not be less than 30 credits in a four-year program
or 20 credits in a three-year program.
1.1.7 Free-choice elective courses
Each study program will include at least 12 credits (10 credits
in a three-year program) that are to be fulfilled through general
free-choice elective courses that can be taken throughout the
departments of the Technion. Of these total credits, at least 6
credits must be taken from courses defined as enrichment
studies (except for study tracks within the Faculty of Medicine
and the Faculty of Architecture and Town Planning), and at
least 2 credits must be fulfilled through physical education
courses. Students’ enrollment in free-choice elective courses
that are offered through the Technion are subject to the rules of
registration for that course. Surplus credits and credits earned
for social activities and reserve service will be recognized for
the purpose of fulfilling the general Technion elective credits.
1.1.8 Physical education
Students are required to take 2 credits of physical education
courses. Students can fulfill this requirement throughout all
their years of study at the Technion, but may not take more than
1.5 credits per semester. Students who are unable to engage in
physical education courses due to health reasons that are
verified by a doctor’s note will be exempt from this requirement
but will not receive any credits.
1.1.9 Approved student curriculum
A curriculum that has been approved by the Senate will be
designated as valid for a particular student if it meets the
following condition: The curriculum was published in the
Undergraduate Studies Catalogue in the year that the student
began his/her studies or in the catalogue of any academic year
after that, or a curriculum that draws on multiple catalogues and
has been recommended by the unit and approved by the Dean
of Undergraduate Studies.

=== Page 5 ===
1.2 Syllabi
1.2.1 Syllabi
The Unit’s Council will determine the syllabus for each course,
which then must be approved by the Senate. Each academic unit
will arrange for there to be a teaching committee, which will be
responsible for updating the syllabi and the list of textbooks.
Syllabi for service courses (courses that are provided to another
unit) should be created in conjunction with representatives of
the receiving unit. The council of the unit providing the service
will be responsible for its implementation. Each syllabus will
include course objectives, outlined by topic, and will emphasize
the principles that will be taught in the course. Each syllabus
will be outlined according to chapters in the book or textbook,
as well as other supplementary material that will be distributed
to students. A copy of the official syllabus will be distributed to
each student enrolled in the course. Each academic unit must
review and, if necessary, update the curriculum at least once
every three years.
1.2.2 Determining the number of credits per course
This guide is to be used to determine the number of credits per
course: one lecture hour = 1 credit; one practicum hour = ½
credit; one lab hour = 1/3 credit (except for projects). The credit
amount should be rounded to the nearest half point. Credits can
be increased for increased workloads. However, the number of
credits cannot be less than the number determined by the above
guide. Currently, courses in the Humanities and Arts that
include 2 hours of lecture can be worth 1.5 credits. Course
credits are determined according to the hours of work required
of the student in practice. In general, 50-60 hours of work per
week is equivalent to 20 credits.
1.2.3 Connection between courses
A. Prerequisites
A prerequisite is a course that must be completed (and passed)
prior to enrolling in the course in question. Registration to the
course will not be denied if the prerequisite requirement is not
fulfilled. However, the instructor will receive a notification and
will be able to deny the student enrollment in the course (despite
the advisor’s approval). Advisors are asked to carefully
consider each approval and limit it to students in good standing
only.
B. Corresponding courses
The course in question should not be taken before its
corresponding course. All guidelines regarding approval for
enrolling in a course for which the prerequisites were not
fulfilled, also applies in this circumstance.
C. Courses without additional credit
Courses that contain a lot of similar material are defined as
courses without additional credit. That is, students who enroll
in two such courses will not receive any additional credits.
Students will not be able to simultaneously enroll in two
courses that are specified as courses without additional credit.
If a student has successfully passed a specific course and then
enrolls in a course without additional credit, the credits that
he/she earned in the first course will be revoked and the grade
earned in the second course will prevail. If the student passes
the course, the number of credits that he/she will earn will be in
accordance with the most recent course taken.
When the material taught in the course without additional credit
includes all the material from the second course, as well as
additional material, the first course will be termed “inclusive”
and the second course will be called “included.”
1.3 Courses to be Completed Prior to Starting One’s
Studies
1.3.1 Standard level
Each unit will determine, with the Senate’s approval, the
required level to begin taking foundational courses (hereinafter,
the standard level). Based on this determination, a
recommended curriculum will be constructed. This will also
determine whether the specified level is a firm condition for
student admission or whether candidates with a sub-standard
level can be accepted, so long as they complete the missing
requirements. These courses will be prerequisites for the
relevant course in the curriculum. Hebrew studies are not
considered to be a prerequisite for starting one’s degree
program. We recommend that students who are required to
fulfill these prerequisite course requirements enroll in a more
limited course of study.
1.3.2 Placement exams in physics (Mechanics + Electricity)
Students must pass Part A of the Placement Exam (Mechanics)
prior to the start of the third semester of their studies and Part B
of the Placement Exam (Electricity) prior to the start of the
fourth semester of their studies. In addition, each unit may, with
the approval of the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, set an
earlier date by which students must pass the two parts of the
placement exam in physics. Students who do not fulfill this
requirement will be considered to be in “poor academic
standing” (see Regulation 3.1.5).
The placement exam in physics is mandatory for all students
who are admitted to the Technion, except for students admitted
to programs in Architecture, Landscape Architecture,
Economics, Education in Science and Technology (in the
biology, mathematics, or computer science track), or Medicine.
Additional exceptions include:
A. Students who have completed at least 4 units of physics in
the matriculation (Bagrut) exam and received a grade of 70 or
above.
B. Exemption from Part A of the Placement Exam (Mechanics)
will be provided to students who have completed the
technological track for practical engineers, specializing in
mechanics or agricultural mechanics, and who have received a
grade of 70 or above on the external exams in technical

=== Page 6 ===
mechanics. Exemption from Part B of the placement exam
(Electrical) will be granted to students who completed the
technological track for practical engineers with one of the
following specializations: Electronics, Instrumentation, or
Evaluation, took their exams, and received a score of 70 or
above on their external exams in their primary area of the
specialization.
C. Anyone who has studied physics at the university level in
Israel or abroad and who received a passing grade, according to
what is customary in the relevant institution, will receive full
exemption from the physics placement exam.
D. New immigrants who went to high school abroad will submit
their application for exemption to the Committee for the
Examination of Diplomas, which will consult with the Faculty
of Physics as necessary. The exemption will be approved as per
the recommendations of the committee.
Passing Part A of the placement exam in Physics or being
exempt from it is a condition for taking the following courses:
Physics 1 or Physics 1M or Physics 1R or Physics 1P. Passing
Part B of the placement exam in Physics or being exempt from
it is a condition for taking the following courses: Physics 1 or
Physics 1M or Physics 1R or Physics 1P.
1.3.3 English studies
The Placement Exam in English is mandatory for anyone
accepted to the Technion. The “English” portion of the
psychometric exam or on the “AMIR” test or on the SAT is
considered to be a placement exam. A minimum level of
knowledge in English is necessary in order to be accepted to the
Technion. The different placement levels are: Advanced
English A, Advanced Technical English B, or Exempt.
Exemption from the Placement Exam in English will be granted
to those who have earned a satisfactory grade on the English
portion of the psychometric exam, the AMIR test, the SAT
exam, or in previous coursework. The “Advanced English A”
course and the “Advanced Technical English B” courses are
offered through the Department of Humanities and Arts at the
Technion. The “Advanced English A” course is a prerequisite
for the “Advanced Technical English B” course. The
“Advanced English A” course does not grant any course credits.
The “Advanced Technical English B” course grants 3 credits
(with a grade). Exemption from the English course requirement
grants 3 credits (without a grade).
All students who begin their studies at the Technion starting in
the 2021-2022 academic year must take at least 2 English
language courses during their undergraduate studies. This
requirement can be fulfilled by taking two English language
learning courses (Advanced A and B) or two content courses
that are taught in the English language, or one English language
learning course and one content course that is taught in English.
This requirement will be determined in accordance with
students’ placement level that is determined at the start of their
studies. The content courses that are taught in English will be
academic courses that are part of the student’s standard
curriculum. The English language learning courses must be
completed within a maximum of four semesters. A student who
has not fulfilled this requirement will be considered to be a
student in “poor academic standing” [see Section 3.1.5.A (5)].
Students who have not completed two of the aforementioned
English courses will not be able to complete their
studies/receive their degree.
1.3.4 Hebrew studies
All admitted students who did not take the psychometric exam
in Hebrew must pass a Hebrew placement exam. A minimum
level of knowledge in Hebrew is necessary in order to be
accepted into the Technion -113.
The different placement levels are: Hebrew 3 or Exempt (which
does not grant any credit points). The “Hebrew 3” course will
be offered through the Pre-Academic Education Center
(preparatory). A passing grade in the “Hebrew 3” course will
grant 3 credit points (without a grade; P+). These credits are
considered to be part of the Technion general elective credits.
Students who do not fulfill the Hebrew language requirements
by the end of their second semester at the Technion will be
considered to be a student in “poor academic standing” [see
Section 3.1.5.(B) (6)].
1.3.5 Grades in courses that must be completed prior to
starting one’s studies
Courses that must be completed prior to beginning one’s studies
do not result in a grade; rather, these courses are pass/fail. These
courses are prerequisites for the relevant courses/subjects.
2. Regulations Relating to the Provision of
Instruction
2.1 Instruction
2.1.1 Teaching methods
Instructors will choose which material they will present to
students during their lecturers from the syllabus, and can lecture
on any other material that they see fit. However, the exams will
be based upon the official syllabus, including chapters/sections
that the instructor did not lecture on.
2.1.2 Guided reading
If there is no standard form of instruction for a particular
subject/course in one of the semesters, and if the nature of the
subject lends itself to learning in a guided reading format,
students can be instructed in this way after special approval is
given by the head of the unit. Guided reading consists of:
holding regular meetings (at least once a week) with the
instructor in charge, as well as submitting assignments as

=== Page 7 ===
required. The syllabus will be set in accordance with the points
specified in Section 1.2.1.
2.1.3 Instructor responsible for the course
Each course that is offered by more than one instructor, will
have one instructor who is appointed by the head of the unit to
which the instructors belong to be the instructor responsible for
that course. In addition to being responsible for course
instruction, this instructor will also be responsible for the exam
and grades in the particular course.
2.2 Exams
2.2.1 Evaluating course performance
Instructors are responsible for assessing students’ level of
learning and the course exam can be used as one of the means
to achieve this goal; however, the instructor is not obligated to
hold an exam at the end of the course.
2.2.2 Standardized evaluation
To the extent that the course is taught by several different
instructors at the same time, the head instructor will be
responsible for ensuring that the exam is standardized across
instructors, and that the method of evaluation is identical. In
addition, the head instructor will be the one to approve the
grades given to students.
2.2.3 Exam dates
At the end of each semester, there will be a period of three
weeks during which the first exam dates (Moed A) and then the
second exam dates (Moed B) for all courses will be held. During
the period of time designated for exams, no exams will be held
for courses worth fewer than 1.5 credits. In these courses,
grades will be determined on the basis of tests and/or exams that
were held during the course of the semester. There is no option
to hold these final exams earlier in the semester, and definitely
not during the last week of the semester. In courses in which
weight is given to grades provided throughout the semesters and
tests are held throughout the duration of the semester, it will be
possible to hold a test during the last week of the semester,
provided that it is held during the standard course time and is
similar in scope to the other tests.
2.2.4 Exam Procedures
The Undergraduate Academic Secretary will determine and
publish the exam schedule and locations, as well as the seating
arrangements for the exams and the division of students
between the rooms. Each student will receive an exam card in
which details of his/her exams in each course for which they are
enrolled in that semester is specified.
2.2.5 Mid Exams
The number of mid exams for a given course is limited as
follows: No more than three mid exams can be given in a course
for which the mid exam replace a final exam, and no more than
one valid mid exam can be given in a course for which there is
a final exam. Each mid exam shall not exceed two hours and for
each valid mid exam that is given, there must be a second date
(Moed B) on which students can take the test.
2.3 Credits and Grades
2.3.1 Semester-long courses
The course of study for a degree consists of semester-long
courses. Students (besides those in the Faculty of Medicine)
will be allowed to register for more than 29 credits per semester
only if the head of the unit has recommended this and the Dean
of Undergraduate Studies has approved it. Students who are
enrolled in a course receive a university grade at the end of the
semester that reflects their performance in the course: A grade
of 55 or above reflects a passing grade and the student will
receive the allotted number of credits for the course. A grade
below 55 will reflect a failing grade and the student will not
receive any course credit. In both cases, the score will be
included in the calculation of the student’s weighted cumulative
average. There are a small number of courses in which the
grading system is binary --pass/fail. A passing grade entitles
the student to credits whereas a failing grade does not grant the
student any credits. A binary grade does not influence the
cumulative average. A student who is registered for a course but
does not fulfill one of the requirements of the course, such as a
final exam or submission of a project, might not receive a final
grade, as per the discretion of the lecturer. Such a course will
be counted in the “Course Success Rate” (see Section 3.1.5
below). Eight weeks after the start of the following semester,
the student will receive an “incomplete” for that course. For
similar projects and courses, in which assignments last more
than one semester, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies may
delay the recording of the “incomplete” grade until the end of
the following semester. Students who are not registered for a
course will not be able to receive a grade in that course.
2.3.2 Course exemptions
Students will be able to receive an exemption from courses if
they can prove their knowledge in the subject in the following
ways: Previous coursework (excluding high school studies) or
by way of an exam. Exemption can be granted with credit (P+)
or without credit (P-), as per the recommendation of the unit’s
undergraduate studies center.
Exemptions will not be granted for courses taken at any
institution during the period in which a student was expelled
from the Technion due to a violation of disciplinary regulations.
2.3.3 Publication of grades and appeals of final exam
grades
2.3.3.1 The course instructor will send all students their exam
score within 10 days of the exam.
2.3.3.2 The course instructor will submit the list of grades in
the course to the individual responsible for the course’s
instruction in the unit, and if there are no reservations, the list
of grades will be forwarded on to the Undergraduate Academic

=== Page 8 ===
Secretary. At the same time, the information will be
communicated to the students.
2.3.3.3 Students who wish to appeal their grade, may do so
within four days from when a copy of their exam booklet was
made available. For the purpose of filing the appeal, students
will be entitled to receive a copy of their exam booklet. Students
will submit their request for appeal either orally or in writing,
as per the instructions of the instructor.
2.3.3.4 The course instructor will submit a response to the
student regarding his/her appeal of the score on the first exam
(Moed A), which is to be submitted in the period specified
above, no later than one week before the second date of the
exam (Moed B). If no response is provided, the student will be
entitled to take the exam again (Moed B) on a special date,
which will be at least one week after the student receives a
response to their appeal, provided that it is before the exam
period of the following semester.
2.3.3.5 In exceptional cases, changes to this procedure will be
approved by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, especially for
courses in which the period of time between the first and second
date of the exam is short. In these cases, an effort shall be made
to coordinate with the student representatives.
2.4 Reserve Duty
The Senate recognizes the disruption to students’ studies that
results from reserve service and from service within the
framework of the academic reserve (hereinafter: reserve duty)
during the course of the semester and/or the exam period. The
Senate calls on the heads of the academic units and lecturers to
alleviate the distress of those serving in the reserves and
particularly to those serving for long periods of time during the
semester (including the exam period). The academic units must
make every effort to allow students to complete the course
material and all course requirements in the semester in which
they are enrolled. The Senate asks all bodies that deal with this
matter to do everything in their power so that the disruption is
minimized. The purpose of this regulation is to try and
minimize the harm to students’ studies among those who are
serving in the reserves.
Students who serve in the reserves during the semester will be
entitled to solutions that will minimize any harm to their
studies, the grades that they deserve or the duration of their
studies. These solutions, in regard to ensuring that students are
able to fulfill course requirements (e.g., tests/exams, labs,
practicums), may include a test/exam, practicum, additional
work, permission to bring a formula page to the exam, etc., as
specified below:
Absence from an exam
Students are entitled to not take an exam during the exam period
and to receive an alternative solution, such as taking the exam
at a different date, if one of the following conditions are met:
 Reserve service on the day of the exam (except for
conferences/interviews in which one can choose the date of
participation);
 Reserve service of at least three days per week prior to the
exam date;
 Reserve service of at least 10 consecutive days or 14 days in
total during the semester, up until the start of the exam period;
 Reserve service of at least 10 days in total during the exam
period.
If the course instructor sets another date for the exam as a
solution, the date of the alternative exam shall be no later than
five weeks after the publication of grades of the second exam
date (Moed B). The faculties are responsible for setting the date
of the exam for reservists while taking into account the tests and
exam dates of other courses in the current semester.
The above instructions also apply to valid tests.
In the case of a “protective” exam, the solution offered will be
the responsibility of, and at the discretion of, the lecturer, and
will be implemented in such a way that does not harm the
student.
Instead of a taking the exam on the alternative date, students
will be able to cancel their course registration or can choose to
repeat the course at a later time.
In the case that the student chooses to repeat the course:
 The recorded grade will be “incomplete”.
 The course will not be included in the course success rate
calculation.
 The grade will be recorded in the semester in which the
requirements are completed.
Students will be eligible to transfer the course grades they
received during the course of the semester in which they had
reserve duty, in accordance with the course requirements for the
semester to which they are transferring the grades; the instructor
shall help the student do so in a way that does not harm the
student nor the efforts he/she has invested during the semester
in which he/she had reserve duty. The request will be honored
by the unit offering the course.
Regulations regarding prerequisites of subsequent courses will
not be implemented.
Exam appeals
Students who are not around during the appeal period due to
reserve duty, will receive an extension for the date by which the
appeal must be filed in accordance with the number of days that
they were in reserve duty.
Assignments
Students who are absent due to reserve duty in the two weeks
prior to the submission deadline of an assignment will receive
an extension for at least the number of days that they were in
reserve duty. In the case that the new submission date falls
during the exam period, the deadline will be postponed until
after the exam period.

=== Page 9 ===
The extension will also apply to the students’ partners on a
group assignment.
For students who missed the submission deadline of a
significant number of assignments in the course due to reserve
duty of 14 days or longer, the instructor will determine an
alternative solution for submitting the assignments.
Time extensions
Students will be eligible to receive 25% additional time on the
first exam that they take in each course during the current
semester if one of the following conditions is met:
Active reserve duty for a cumulative period of 14 days during
the semester, up until the start of the exam period;
Active reserve duty for a period of 10 days or more in the four
weeks prior to the exam period;
Active reserve duty for 10 consecutive days or more during the
exam period.
2.5 Recognized Social Activity in Exchange for
Academic Credits
Undergraduate students who participated in a recognized social
activity for the benefit of the community. without receipt of
compensation, in the amount of 26 hours per semester during
the course of the year will be eligible to receive one credit
towards the general Technion elective credit requirement for
their degree.
Undergraduate students who participated in a recognized social
activity for the benefit of the community, without receipt of
compensation, in the amount of 30 hours throughout the year or
served in active reserve duty for at least 14 days throughout the
year will be eligible to receive two credits towards the general
Technion elective credit requirement for their degree.
The maximum number of credits in regard to Regulation 2.5
that can be grated during the student’s degree studies is 2
credits.
3. Student Regulations
3.1 Course of Studies in a Bachelor’s Degree Program
3.1.1 Counseling
We recommend that all students utilize academic counseling in
their unit to help them to choose a program of study and to assist
them with all other academic matters.
3.1.2 Course registration
Students shall enroll for courses for the winter and spring
semesters prior to the start of each semester. For courses that
are not project-based or laboratory-based, students may make
changes to their course list/schedule of classes within the first
two weeks of the semester. After the registration and course
change period ends (that is, from the start of the semester for
project-based and laboratory-based courses and from the start
of the 3rd week of the semester for all other courses), changes
can only be made in accordance with the guidelines specified in
advance by the unit responsible for the course and with the
approval of the Dean of Undergraduate Studies.
Starting from the end of the 4th week of the semester, or 3 weeks
after the end of the second exam date (Moed B) of the previous
semester (whichever comes later), no additional changes can be
made except for in exceptional cases and with the approval of
the Dean of Undergraduate Studies.
New students who do not enroll in any courses in their first
semester will not have their place saved at the Technion. In
exceptional circumstances, the Dean of Undergraduate Studies
will approve of an extension to the start of studies for such
students.
3.1.3 Exams and re-enrollment in courses
A. Students may take the exam on the first date that it is offered
(Moed A) and/or the second date that it is offered (Moed B).
B. Students may re-enroll in any course that they have previous
taken in order to improve their grade in the course in the two
semesters following the one in which they earned a “passing”
grade for the first time.
C. In exceptional circumstances, additional exam dates will be
approved for the purpose of improving one’s grade, with the
recommendation of the academic unit and the approval of the
Dean of Undergraduate Studies. Special consideration will be
given to matters related to courses that are offered annually.
D. Students may re-enroll in any mandatory courses of their
curriculum if the last grade they received in the course was a
“failing” grade.
E. Students may enroll in advanced project courses or
laboratory-based courses (e.g., a “studio” course in the Faculty
of Architecture and Town Planning) up to two times at most.
The list of courses to which this provision applies will be
periodically updated by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies.
F. In any case, the last score received is the determining score.
3.1.4 Academic excellence
A. The study tracks will be periodically divided, by the Dean
of Undergraduate Studies and in consultation with the heads of
the academic units, into groups that, for the purposes of this
section, are called “study routes.” The list of study routes will
be published on the Undergraduate Studies website.
B. The Dean of Undergraduate Studies will determine and
publish, prior to the President’s Excellence Awards ceremony
held each semester, the numerical thresholds for eligibility for
the President’s Excellence and Dean’s Excellence Awards for
each study route. The thresholds will be determined on the basis
of academic performance in the previous semester. The
thresholds will be set in such a way such that, in each study

=== Page 10 ===
route, there will be approximately 3% of students who will
receive the President’s Excellence Award and approximately an
additional 15% of students who will receive the Dean’s
Excellence Award (including those receiving the President’s
Excellence Award) – and under the condition that the threshold
does not fall under 91 (President’s Excellence) and 84 (Dean’s
Excellence).
C. The criteria for receiving the President’s Excellence Award
are a minimum of 18 accumulated credits earned in courses
included in the curriculum for the current semester and an
average grade of 91 or above, provided that this average grade
does not fall below the threshold set forth in Section B above.
The criteria for the Dean’s Excellence Award are a minimum
of 18 credits earned in courses included in the curriculum for
the current semester and an average grade of 84 or above,
provided that the average grade does not fall below the
threshold set forth in Section B above.
3.1.5 Students in poor academic standing
A. Students will be considered to be in poor academic standing
if they meet at least one of the following conditions:
1. A weighted cumulative GPA of less than 65.
2. A course success rate of less than 66%.
3. The student was in poor academic standing in the prior
semester and did not fulfill the curriculum set forth for him/her.
4. The student did not fulfill his/her obligation to take the
Physics Placement Exam by the required deadline (see
Regulation 1.3.2).
5. The student did not complete his/her English studies
requirement by the end of the fourth semester of his/her studies
(see Regulation 1.3.3).
6. The student did not complete his/her Hebrew studies
requirement by the end of the second semester of his/her studies
(see Regulation 1.3.4).
7. The student has been studying for the degree for two years
or more beyond the standard number of years designated for the
degree; that is, the student is in his/her 13th semester or beyond
(of a four-year degree program) or in the 11th semester or
beyond (of a three-year degree program), and so on.
8. The student has accumulated fewer than 27 credits during
the first two semesters of his/her studies from the recommended
course schedule of the study track in which they are enrolled.
For the purpose of this clause:
-The English requirement will be recognized as an
accumulation of 2 credits, and the Physics requirement will be
recognized as an accumulation of 4 credits. Students who are
exempt from taking the Technical English course or for whom
the course does not appear on the course list for their first year
of the study track, will be “debited” 24 credits.
-This clause does not apply to students who have been
admitted to the Technion on the basis of their academic
background.
B. Students’ progress in their degree program will be evaluated
at the end of the first and second semesters and, in more
advanced years, also at the end of the summer semester, and
after other semesters as required by regulations.
C. Students who are in poor academic standing will be invited
to their academic unit for counseling and guidance. The
academic unit will hold a discussion and, depending on the
severity of the student’s situation, will recommend – to the
Dean of Undergraduate Studies – conditions for continuing on
in the program (e.g., specifying a a mandatory course of
study/curriculum for one semester or one year, or other
requirements) or will recommend that the student’s studies be
terminated. During the course of the discussions, the student
will have the right to make his/her arguments. In addition,
consideration will be given to the opinion of the Student
Counseling and Support Center as well as to special
circumstances such as reserve duty. The academic unit will
inform the student of its recommendation, which will be shared
with the Dean of Undergraduate Studies who will make a
decision about how to proceed. The academic unit will
determine the responsible body for providing counseling and
guidance, as well as the procedure for the discussions regarding
discontinuing students’ studies, and will be responsible for
informing the students and the Dean of Undergraduate Studies
of these decisions. A student whose studies have been
terminated will be entitled to appeal the decision in writing or
orally to the Dean of Undergraduate Studies.
D. Students who were in poor academic standing when their
studies were terminated or when they discontinued their studies
on their own accord will be able to apply to return to their study
program after two years from the date that their studies were
discontinued (see Regulation 3.1.6).
3.1.6 Admission for students with a prior academic
background, and returning to studies after a break
Students in good academic standing who discontinue their
studies on their own accord will be able to apply to return to
their studies at any time. If they have already completed one or
two semesters, they will be able to choose between an
admission procedure that is based upon an agreement or an
admission procedure that is based on the unit’s
recommendation and the approval of the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies. If students have completed at least three
semesters, they will be admitted to the Technion on the basis of
the unit’s recommendation and with the approval of the Dean
of Undergraduate Studies. The unit will recommend to the
student a course schedule to follow to complete his/her degree
and may add specific requirements such as repeating courses in
which the grade earned was less than 65, the extent of prior
courses that need to be completed, and the duration of studies.

=== Page 11 ===
Students who return to their studies after a prolonged break
(over 3 years) will have a plan determined for them regarding
courses that need to be completed in the scope of 10-25 credits.
The unit’s recommendation will be sent to the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies for approval, who will be in charge of
making the final decision.
Students who were in poor academic standing when their
studies were terminated or when they discontinued their studies
on their own accord at the Technion or any other institution,
will be able to apply to return to their study program two years
from the date at which their studies were discontinued. Students
who discontinued their studies on their own accord after only
one semester will be able to request a shorter break period,
however, this is subject to the approval of the academic unit.
Admission for students whose studies have been terminated or
who discontinued their studies on their own accord after
completing only one semester will be based on the standard
admission requirements of the unit to which the student wants
to be accepted. Requests to return to one’s studies among
students who have completed at least two semesters require the
approval of the Dean of Undergraduate Studies in addition to
meeting the admission requirements. Requests to return to one’s
studies for students who have completed three or more
semesters will be discussed by the academic unit to which the
student wants to be accepted. The academic unit may require
that the student take courses in an external setting during the
years in which they are on a break from their studies at the
Technion, and may specify an agreement stating that
completion of these courses will serve as additional condition
for admission. The academic unit will determine the required
curriculum for the degree, and may add specific requirements
such as a requirement to repeat courses in which the grade
earned was less than 65, the extent of prior courses that need to
be completed, and the duration of studies. Students who return
to their studies after a prolonged break (over 3 years) will have
a plan determined for them regarding courses that need to be
completed in the scope of 10-25 credits. The unit’s
recommendation will be sent to the Dean of Undergraduate
Studies for approval, who will be in charge of making the final
decision.
3.1.7 Transferring admission tracks
Students will be able to transfer from one admission track to
another, in accordance with the following guidelines: Up until
the end of the second semester of their studies at the Technion,
students will be able to transfer if their admission data meet the
admission threshold set by the unit. The transfer will be
conditional on their academic standing after they have fulfilled
the requirements of the semester in which the application is
submitted (a GPA of at least 65, a course success rate of at least
66%).
Students who have completed at least two semesters at the
Technion and have taken courses from the standard course
basket (as approved by the Senate on May 23, 1993) and whose
performance ranks at the top 25% of the corresponding group
of students within the study track to which they wish to transfer,
will be admitted to their desired study track.
Applications from students who have completed at least two
semesters at the Technion but whose performance is not in the
top 25%, or who have not taken courses from the relevant
course basket, as well as applications from students who have
not yet completed two semesters at the Technion and who are
in poor academic standing, will be forwarded on to the unit. The
unit will submit a recommendation to the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies regarding their admission on the basis
of their academic performance at the Technion and their initial
admission data.
3.2 Bachelor’s Degree Completion
3.2.1 Degree eligibility
Students who have completed an approved degree program
with a GPA of 65 or above are eligible to receive their degree.
3.2.2	Additional degree and a post-graduate program
A. Additional degree
Students who are studying at the Technion and who wish to
pursue an additional bachelor’s degree will be able to apply for
enrollment in the integrated study track in the additional unit in
which they wish to study. Their application will be considered
only after they have accumulated at least 72 credits.
The second unit in which the student wishes to study must
submit their recommendation to the Dean of Undergraduate
Studies for approval, on the basis of the student’s academic
performance, and the unit will determine the curriculum that the
student will need to complete which will include all mandatory
content for the additional track, with the exception of courses
that the student has already completed or will complete in the
track of his/her “home” faculty. The minimum credit points that
the student must accumulate in both tracks will be 0.75 of the
total points that must be accumulated in each track.
For example, if a student is studying in a track at the Technion
in which 160 points must be accumulated, and wants to study
for another degree in a track in which 120 points must be
accumulated, then in total, he/she must accumulate at least 210
points, and therefore, the remaining credits that the student must
complete will consist of at least 50 points.
The program of study in the secondary track will be approved
by the Dean of Undergraduate Studies. Students who complete
the requirements of the track will be awarded the additional
degree if their GPA in the secondary program is 65 or above,
and only after they complete their studies in their home faculty.
B. Post-graduate program
Technion students and graduates of the Technion or other
recognized academic institutions can learn an additional field
of study in addition to that in which they earned their first

=== Page 12 ===
degree through the framework of the “Post-Graduate Program.”
Students will receive an additional certificate, that will
constitute an addition to the original diploma. This diploma is
not a separate degree but rather a “postgraduate” certificate.
The scope of studies in the “Post-Graduate Program” after a 3-
year degree includes at least 45 credits. The scope of studies in
the “Post-Graduate Program” after a 4-year degree includes at
least 56 credits. In the Faculty of Education for Science and
Technion, it is possible to earn a certificate within the context
of the “Post-Graduate Program” by completing 36 credits.
3.2.3	Minimum Technion credits
This regulation applies to students who studied at another
academic institution but did not complete their undergraduate
studies at that institution. Students who have received credits
for their previous studies at any academic institution will be
required to complete at least 40 credits at the Technion in order
to receive a bachelor’s degree from the Technion. The
curriculum will be determined by the unit to which the student
was admitted.
3.2.4	Levels of academic distinction
The study tracks will be periodically divided by the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies, in consultation with the heads of the
academic units, into groups which will be called “study routes”
for the purposes of this section. The list of study routes will be
published on the Undergraduate Studies website.
The Dean of Undergraduate Studies will determine and publish,
prior to the graduation ceremony held each year, the numerical
thresholds for the academic distinction of summa cum laude
and cum laude for each study route for the year leading up to
the ceremony in the following year. The thresholds for the
following year will be determined on the basis of the academic
performance of graduates in that study route in the previous
semester. The thresholds will be set in such a way that, in each
study route, approximately 3% of students will graduate summa
cum laude and approximately 15% of students will graduate
cum laude (including those who graduate summa cum laude).
The determination of each graduate’s level of distinction will
be made upon confirmation of graduation.
The criterion for distinction is the student’s GPA for the list of
courses for their degree, which must be 91 or above, provided
that this GPA is above the threshold set for the summa cum
laude distinction in his/her study route. The criterion for honors
is the student’s GPA for the list of courses for their degree,
which must be 84 or above, provided that this GPA is above the
threshold set for the cum laude distinction in his/her study route
(and the student is not eligible to receive a degree with summa
cum laude). This is in effect from the 2007-2008 class year,
June 2008 graduation ceremony.
3.2.5 Graduation dates
Each student’s date of graduation is determined on the basis of
the date on which the last grade was received, and will be set
for the first of the month following that date. Confirmation of
graduation will be provided by the Dean of Undergraduate
Studies.
3.2.6 Diplomas
Upon completion of all degree requirements, students will
specify all the courses that they took towards their degree and
all courses that they took beyond the requirements. The diploma
will include all courses classified as degree courses and will
appear in ascending order (by course number), as well as a list
of all courses classified as being beyond the requirements. If a
student has repeated a course, only the most recent time that the
course was taken will appear on the diploma (any courses that
were not completed will not appear on the lists, but if the course
was taken previously and the student received a grade, that
grade is valid and will appear on the lists).
Appendix A: Procedure for Submitting a
Curriculum
This procedure refers to the preparation of curricula, which are
submitted by the council of the academic units to the Standing
Committee for Undergraduate and Graduate Studies, via the
Central Committee. A curriculum proposal must include the
following components:
A. Summary of study program requirements for the degree
1. The total number of credits, between 155-165 (or between
116-124 for a three-year degree). In units in which the
bachelor’s degree requires additional content credits, the
number of credits will be updated accordingly.
2. Mandatory course requirements and a list of mandatory
courses (including foundational courses, in accordance with the
requirements of the Senate).
3. Requirements for elective courses and a list of the elective
courses, and the extent of it, as determined by the unit. The total
elective course requirements, as per this clause, will not be less
than 30 credits for a four-year program (20 credits in programs
that award dual or combined degrees, which are not in a single-
program format as defined by The Council for Higher
Education) and 20 credits for three-year programs (15 credits in
programs that award dual or combined degrees, which are not
in a single-program format as defined by The Council for
Higher Education); in addition, there must be a reasonable
number of choices from which students can select the elective
courses.
4. Completion of requirements through enrollment in general
elective courses, amounting to at least 12 credits (10 credits in
a three-year program), of which 6 credits are for mandatory
enrichment courses.
B. Recommended course of study/curriculum
1. The unit must submit a recommended course of study for 8
semesters (6 semesters in a three-year program).

=== Page 13 ===
2. The recommended curriculum will apply to students who
begin their studies in the winter semester or spring semester
following the approved curriculum.
3. The curriculum must meet the following criteria:
 Completion of fundamental courses within the first 5
semesters.
 The curriculum must comply with the prerequisites and
corresponding requirements, as specified in the syllabus.
 The number of credits per semester will be between 18-22
(18-20 in the first semester), and attention should be paid for
ensuring that the number of contact hours is reasonable; 30
contact hours is typically the maximum.
 The number of final exams per semester in the
recommended curriculum should not exceed 7.
 The “Advanced Technical English B” course was included
in one of the first three semesters.
C. Syllabi for new courses or changes to a syllabus
D. Additional guidelines
1. The curriculum and prerequisites should allow a competent
student to complete their studies within 7 semesters, without
enrolling in a summer semester; the recommended curriculum
should be examined through the perspective of the student.
2. Making changes to foundational courses will be possible
once every 3 years, with the exception of turning a mandatory
course into an elective course.
E. Disclaimer
An explicit statement that the curriculum meets the credit
accrual guidelines, as well as the requirements and criteria
included in detail below. If there are any deviations, the
statement must indicate this explicitly and the matter will be
brought up for discussion within the Standing Committee for
Undergraduate and Graduate Studies.
Appendix B: Procedure for Establishing Tracks and
New Specializations
Definitions:
 Track – a program of study that leads to a separate degree.
 Specialization – a program of study with a particular
concentration for which the student’s participation is
recorded only on the transcript.
When an academic unit, with the approval of its council,
proposes to establish a new track that leads to a separate degree,
a proposal for approval shall be submitted to the Standing
Committee through the Academic Development Committee.
When an academic unit decides, through its council, to establish
a new specialization within the framework of the study
program, it shall be sent to the Standing Committee for
approval. Approval for new courses within the same
specialization shall be carried out in accordance with the
existing procedure for approving courses.
Appendix C: Decisions of the Kogan Committee for
Foundational Studies
1. Foundational courses will be offered to all academic units at
the Technion. There will no course adjustments for academic
units due to special arrangements. The topics in the
foundational courses will be determined by the units
responsible for them (mathematics, physics, chemistry,
biology, English, and computer science) in collaboration with
committees that will be determined by the Senior Vice
President for each of the units. These committees will condense
the needs brought up by the units receiving the services, thus
assisting in the construction of the foundational courses.
2. The Faculty of Architecture and Town Planning, the Faculty
of Medicine, the Faculty of Biology, and the area of Economics
and Management in the Faculty of Industrial Engineering and
Management will be exceptions. Committees shall be
established that will discuss the framework for foundational
courses in their units.
3. There will be a requirement to complete 40 credits of
foundational courses. These credits will be divided as follows:
15 credits in mathematics courses,
12 credits in the natural sciences (Physics, Chemistry, and
Biology),
4 credits in Introduction to Computers,
3 credits for Technical English,
6 credits to be selected from Mathematics courses and Natural
Sciences courses.
4. In the Science units (Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, and
Biology), it will be mandatory to take courses that total a
minimum of 6 credits from the basket of courses in the Natural
Sciences, which are not offered by the unit itself.
5. The choice of courses from the Mathematics and Natural
Sciences baskets will be made by each unit, in accordance with
its needs. For example, a unit can choose some of the courses
from the baskets of natural sciences and physics, and some of
the courses from chemistry or biology.
6. Within the framework of general studies, special divisions
will be organized and each of them will include a number of
relevant courses.

=== Page 14 ===
Appendix D: Exam Procedures and the Provision of
Grades
1. Purpose
The purpose of this procedure is to establish rules for exams and
the provision of grades, as is customary at the Technion.
2. Instructor responsible for the course; standardized
assessment
For each course that is offered by more than one instructor, the
head of the unit offering the course will appoint an instructor
who will be responsible for that particular course. In addition to
the instructor’s role of being responsible for the course, this
instructor will also be responsible for the exam, grades, and
grade appeals in the course; will ensure that the exam is uniform
across all instructors; and will ensure that the assessment
method is identical for all students enrolled in the course. The
Dean of Undergraduate Studies may approve exceptions to
these instructions. The instructor in charge will be the one who
will approve the grades given by the instructors who teach the
course and the graders of the exam.
3. Method of teaching for the course; exams; grade
components
At the start of the course, teachers must specify the teaching
objectives and requirements to the students of the course,
including attendance requirements, exams, assignments,
quizzes, tours, etc., as well as the implications arising from
partial fulfillment of course requirements. The details of the
material that will be taught in the course will be included on the
course syllabus, as determined by the course instructor, in
addition to the material that will be taught in class. At the start
of the course, and at the latest within the first two weeks of the
semester, the instructor will determine the components of the
final grade, the weight of each component and how each
component will be weighed, and will inform the students of this
in writing or on the course website. If exams will be held in the
course, the instructor must inform the students in advance what
type of exams will be included. The instructor of the course
cannot change the components of the final grade during the
semester, except in exceptional circumstances and with the
approval of the head of the academic unit. The instructor
appointed to be responsible for the course will also be
responsible for all that is stated in this section (see point 2
above).
Exams are typically held at the end of each semester. Students
who have fulfilled the academic requirements of the course and
paid tuition, in accordance with their obligation and subject to
tuition regulations, will be permitted to take the exam. Final
exams include a first date of exam (Moed A) and a second date
of exam (Moed B). Tests given during the course of the
semester typically only have one date on which students can
take the test.
4. Exam arrangements; performance evaluations;
multiple-choice exams
4.1 The purpose of the exam is to evaluate students’
understanding of the course material.
4.2 In accordance with the schedule, as determined by the
Undergraduate Studies Secretariat, the instructor
responsible for the course will prepare the exam. It is
advisable for the instructor in charge of the course to
consult with the other instructors, who are also proficient
in the course material, to ensure that the exam addresses
the material specified in the syllabus, that there are no
errors in the questions and that they are clearly worded, that
the duration of the exam is reasonable and that the exam
content matches with the course content. The instructor
will be in charge of getting the exam printed and copied, as
well as for holding onto it and bringing it to the exam
location. If necessary, the instructor will be able to enlist
the services of the Undergraduate Studies Secretariat to
make copies of the exam while ensuring its confidentiality.
4.3 The relative weight of each question should be specified in
the exam questionnaire. It is also recommended that the
relative weight of each component of the question, if
applicable, be specified in the exam questionnaire.
4.4 Any exams that include multiple-choice questions
(“American” style questions) should have at least three
exam versions. In other words, there must be at least three
exam forms that will have the questions and/or answer
choices appear in different orders.
4.5 For oral exams, it is recommended that they be conducted
in the presence of at least two examiners/graders.
5. Exam dates; exam rooms; exam duration
5.1 The exam schedule will be determined and published for
the students to see prior to the course registration period.
After the exam schedule is published, it is strictly forbidden
to make changes/cancellations/additions. If a need arises to
make changes/cancellations/additions due to justifiable
reasons, a written process will take place (as opposed to a
verbal one) such that the faculty teaching the course will
submit an organized request to the Dean of Undergraduate
Studies. The instructor will commit to solving any
problems that arise as a result of the change. The request
will be approved if the following conditions are met:
1. All students provide their consent in writing.
2. The change is acceptable to the instructor.
3. There are available rooms to hold the exam.
4. The faculty making the request will take care of
announcing the change.
5.2 The exam schedule and exam rooms will be determined by
the Secretary of Undergraduate Studies, after receiving, in

=== Page 15 ===
advance, the list of exams, including exam durations, dates,
and other requirements, from the unit.
5.3 As a general rule, the time allotted for the exam may not
exceed three hours in total. Any deviation from this rule
requires the approval of the unit’s undergraduate division
and the Dean of Undergraduate Studies.
6. Identification of examinees; instructions for examinees;
instructions for exam supervisors; exam supervision
6.1 Examinees must arrive to the exam room at least 10
minutes prior to the start of the exam with their student ID
or their ID card. Students who do not have an ID card can
only take the exam after the course instructor identifies
them, or if an appropriate arrangement has been made
between the student and the instructor.
6.2 Students must be seated in specified room that they were
assigned to take the exam, and not in a room of their
choosing. If a list of seating arrangements has been
prepared, students must sit only in the seat designated for
them and not in another seat of their choosing.
6.3 The Secretary of Undergraduate Studies shall notify the
heads of the units regarding the number of supervisors that
are required to be in each room.
6.4 Students will act in accordance with the instructions given
by the exam supervisors while in the exam room. The exam
supervisor may, at his/her discretion, move a student to
another seat at any time. Upon entering the exam rooms,
students will leave their belongings at the entrance
(including electronic means of communication which must
be turned off). They will only come into the exam room
with the material that is permitted for the exam, will sit in
the place designated for them by the supervisor and will
avoid having any conversations. During the entirety of the
exam, it is forbidden to have within reach, in the exam
room, or next to the exam room any material that is related
to the exam itself or the subject of the exam, except for
material that has been permitted by the instructor. If a
calculator is needed for the exam, only simple scientific
calculators that have no means of communication can be
used.
6.5 A student who enters the exam room and receives the exam
is considered to have participated in the exam. Students
may not leave the exam room during the first hour except
for going to the bathroom, as specified in Section 6.7
below. Students will not be allowed to enter the exam room
after 30 minutes or more have passed during the start of the
exam.
6.6 The course instructor, or someone appointed by him/her,
must be present at the start of the exam and be available
throughout the exam to answer students’ questions. In
cases in which the exam is supervised by external
supervisors, the instructor must arrive to the exam room
prior to the start of the exam to guide the supervisors. The
role of external supervisors is to oversee the exam only.
Any deviation from the guidelines for supervisors is
conditional on the approval of the Dean of Undergraduate
Studies and with prior coordination.
6.7 For exams that last two or more hours, bathroom breaks
will be permitted during the middle third of the exam.
Bathroom breaks will be conducted in an orderly manner
by the supervisors.
6.8 In very exceptional circumstances, the instructor in charge,
or someone on his/her behalf, may decide to provide extra
time on the exam for all students. Extra time for certain
students will be given on the basis of approval from the
Dean of Undergraduate Studies only; the instructor must
respect this approval. The student must bring with him/her
the time extension approval and present it to the
supervisors at the exam. All students eligible for time
extensions will sit in a separate room (if possible) that will
be devoted for time extensions.
6.9 If additional supervisors are needed (in addition to the
external supervisors and the course instructors and their
assistants), the head of the unit will utilize the list of
assistants and instructors in the unit and divide the
supervision load among them. Adjunct instructors will only
supervise exams that they teach. The remainder of the
instructors in the unit and all the assistants and facilitators
will supervise the exams in the unit, in accordance with the
instructions of the head of the unit. For exams in which
there are no external supervisors, the supervisors will
receive a copy of the “Instructions for Exam Supervisors”
document from the Undergraduate Studies Secretariat and
will fulfill their role accordingly. Any unusual event during
the exam will be reported on the supervision form.
7. Grading exams; publishing grades
7.1 The instructor in charge of the course is responsible for the
grading of the exams. Written exams and tests conducted
at the exam dates stipulated in Section 2.2.3 of the
Undergraduate Studies Regulations and Procedures will be
graded without seeing the name of the examinee on the
exam notebook. The instructor in charge of the course can
be assisted by assistant instructors, but the final grade must
be provided by him/her only. If there is no option to do so
logistically, then it will be done by another senior
instructor, as determined by the head of the unit. It is
recommended that teaching assistants and undergraduate
students who grade practicums do not grade final exams.
7.2 The instructor in charge of the course will be personally
responsible for submitting the list of students’ scores in the
course to the unit’s Undergraduate Studies Secretary. The
grades will be sent from the instructor to the head of the
academic unit responsible for teaching the course, and if

=== Page 16 ===
he/she has no reservations, the grades will be sent for
publication. The course instructor is responsible for
publishing course grades within 10 days from the date of
the exam.
7.3 Students may take the exam on the first date that it is
offered (Moed A) and/or the second date that it is offered
(Moed B). It is recommended that students take the exam
on the first date. Students are not allowed to take three
exams for the same course in the same semester. In all
cases in which a student takes more than one exam in a
given course, the last grade that they received will be the
final grade.
7.4 Students may receive a photocopied or scanned copy of
their exam notebook within a reasonable amount of time
following the publication of grades.
8. Grade appeals
8.1 Students may file an appeal within 4 days of when a copy
of their exam notebook becomes available.
8.2 The appeal must be submitted in writing on a form that can
be obtained from the unit. The student must specify his/her
reasons for filing the appeal on the form. The student filing
International Program Students at the
the appeal will be made aware that the entire exam may be
re-graded, and not just the sections that he/she specified in
the appeal. Thus, the appeal may result in no change to the
grade, a higher score or a lower score. There is no right to
appeal a grade on an oral exam.
8.3 The course instructor must respond to appeals within a
reasonable amount of time (no later than one week before
the second exam date). An instructor who wishes to change
a grade, must submit a reasoned request to be approved by
the Dean of Undergraduate Studies. Any grade change
requests submitted to the Undergraduate Studies Secretary
long after the publication of the grade, must be reasoned
and detailed and must receive approval from the
undergraduate studies division in the unit. These types of
requests will be brought for approval by the Dean of
Undergraduate Studies.
9. Holding on to exam notebooks
After the exams, exam notebooks are to be kept by the
instructor for one year. After this period of time, the
notebooks can be destroyed.
Graduation Ceremony

=== Page 17 ===
Specializations at the Technion
Secondary Specialization in Entrepreneurial
Leadership
A new program designed for students across all faculties at the
Technion.
The secondary specialization in entrepreneurial leadership will
consist of three academic layers (worth a total of 10 credits):
1.	Faculty courses on entrepreneurship in the field of
knowledge of the faculty – mandatory (2 credits).
2.	Entrepreneurial leadership course in the Department
of Humanities in collaboration with the Center for
Entrepreneurship and Innovation at the Technion –
mandatory (2 credits).
3.	Cluster of elective courses (6 credits, choice of 3
courses from a total of 10 courses that are offered) in
the Department of Humanities in collaboration with
the Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at the
Technion.
The specialization is intended for undergraduate students of
the Technion. As part of the specialization, students will take
courses on a variety of topics covering the theory, practical
experience, and application of ‘entrepreneurial leadership’.
Admission Requirements
Undergraduate students at the Technion who meet the
following conditions will be able to apply:
1.	Successfully completed courses totaling at least 36
credits.
2. Cumulative GPA above 75.
Each student’s application must be submitted to the
Undergraduate Studies Secretariat of the faculty.
Eligibility for the Specialization Certificate
As part of the specialization, students must complete at least
10 credits, 5 of which will be from the framework of the
student’s degree and the rest will be considered to be beyond
the degree requirements. In order to receive a specialization
certificate, the following requirements must be met:
A. Completing the degree requirements of the primary
degree program in which the student is enrolled.
B. Completion of the mandatory courses:
1. Entrepreneurial Leadership – 2 credits
2.	Technological/Scientific Leadership in the faculty
within the field of knowledge required – 2 credits
C. At least 3 elective courses from the ‘Entrepreneurial
Leadership’ basket of courses. These courses are recognized
as courses of The Council for Higher Education:
1. Fundamentals of Entrepreneurship – 2 credits
2.	Management of Entrepreneurial Projects – 2 credits
3. Leadership and Social Entrepreneurship – 2 credits
4. Business Entrepreneurship – 2 credits
5. Harnessing the Business Ecosystem – 2 credits
6. Entrepreneurial Leadership in Organizations –
Developments and Trends – 2 credits
7. Legal Aspects of Business Entrepreneurship – 2
credits
8. Marketing for Entrepreneurs – 2 credits
9.	High-Tech in Israel – A Strategy for Preserving
Global Leadership – 2 credits
10. Usability of Software Interfaces – 2 credits
11. Design Thinking – 2 credits
12. Creativity, Innovation and Happiness – 2 credits
